third_party/rust/fallible_collections/README.md, before:

Fallible Collections.rs
==============

Implement api on rust collection wich returns a result when an allocation error occurs.
This is inspired a lot by [RFC 2116](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/2116-alloc-me-maybe.md).

The api currently propose a fallible interface for Vec, Box, Arc, Btree and Rc,
a TryClone trait wich is implemented for primitive rust traits and a fallible format macro.

You can use this with try_clone_derive crate wich derive TryClone for your own types.

# Getting Started

[fallible collections is available on crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/fallible_collections).
It is recommended to look there for the newest released version, as well as links to the newest builds of the docs.

At the point of the last update of this README, the latest published version could be used like this:

Add the following dependency to your Cargo manifest...
Add feature std and rust_1_57 to use the stabilized try_reserve api and the std HashMap type. Obviously, you cannot combine it with the 'unstable' feature.
Add integration tests that can be run with the tiny_integration_tester command.

```toml
[dependencies]
fallible_collections = "0.4"

# or
fallible_collections = { version = "0.4", features = ["std", "rust_1_57"] }
```

...and see the [docs](https://docs.rs/fallible_collections) for how to use it.

# Example

Exemple of using the FallibleBox interface.
```rust
use fallible_collections::FallibleBox;

fn main() {
	// this crate an Ordinary box but return an error on allocation failure
	let mut a = <Box<_> as FallibleBox<_>>::try_new(5).unwrap();
	let mut b = Box::new(5);

	assert_eq!(a, b);
	*a = 3;
	assert_eq!(*a, 3);
}
```

Exemple of using the FallibleVec interface.
```rust
use fallible_collections::FallibleVec;

fn main() {
	// this crate an Ordinary Vec<Vec<u8>> but return an error on allocation failure
	let a: Vec<Vec<u8>> = try_vec![try_vec![42; 10].unwrap(); 100].unwrap();
	let b: Vec<Vec<u8>> = vec![vec![42; 10]; 100];
	assert_eq!(a, b);
	assert_eq!(a.try_clone().unwrap(), a);
	...
}
```

## License

Licensed under either of

 * Apache License, Version 2.0, ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.

Commit message:

Bug 1967030 - Update mp4parse-rust to d3e4d255.  r=media-playback-reviewers,supply-chain-reviewers,padenot
Differential Revision: https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D249858

third_party/rust/fallible_collections/README.md, after:

Fallible Collections.rs
==============

Implements APIs on Rust collections wich gracefully return a `Result` when an allocation error occurs.
This is inspired a lot by [RFC 2116](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/2116-alloc-me-maybe.md).

There are APIs for a fallible interface for `Vec`, `Box`, `BTree`, `HashMap`,
and a `TryClone` trait wich is implemented for primitive Rust traits and a fallible format macro.
You can use this with `try_clone_derive` crate wich derive `TryClone` for your own types.

# Getting Started

[`fallible_collections` is available on crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/fallible_collections).
It is recommended to look there for the newest released version, as well as links to the newest builds of the docs.

Add the following dependency to your Cargo manifest:

```toml
[dependencies]
fallible_collections = "0.5"

# or
fallible_collections = { version = "0.5", features = ["std"] }
```

...and see the [docs](https://docs.rs/fallible_collections) for how to use it.

# Example

Exemple of using the `FallibleBox` interface.

```rust
use fallible_collections::FallibleBox;

fn main() {
	// this crate an Ordinary box but return an error on allocation failure
	let mut a = <Box<_> as FallibleBox<_>>::try_new(5).unwrap();
	let mut b = Box::new(5);

	assert_eq!(a, b);
	*a = 3;
	assert_eq!(*a, 3);
}
```

Exemple of using the `FallibleVec` interface.

```rust
use fallible_collections::FallibleVec;

fn main() {
	// this crate an Ordinary Vec<Vec<u8>> but return an error on allocation failure
	let a: Vec<Vec<u8>> = try_vec![try_vec![42; 10].unwrap(); 100].unwrap();
	let b: Vec<Vec<u8>> = vec![vec![42; 10]; 100];
	assert_eq!(a, b);
	assert_eq!(a.try_clone().unwrap(), a);
	...
}
```

## License

Licensed under either of

 * Apache License, Version 2.0, ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.
